*Question 1.1*: Looking at the page containing the table, what are the differences between the DOM as shown by the DOM inspector and the HTML source code? Why would you use the DOM inspector? When is the HTML source useful?

- The DOM will show both what is present in the HTML source code as well as the elements generated by the JavaScript. This is useful because you can specifically see the table rows and data that is being generated by the JavaScript. Thus, if things aren't being generated according to your liking, then it would be easy for instance to change the attr() to add either classes / id's or change the HTML elements. Meanwhile, the HTML source is useful because it helps you understand how the elements are being generated for more troubleshooting, and allows it to be more flexible with the data that is being input rather than static.

Question 1.2: Below we have partially reproduced the first lines from the table's dataset. What piece of software generates this table? Where are the original data stored?

- This table is generated with JavaScript, with the original data being stored in "countries_2012.json". 

Question 2.1: Would you filter other columns from the table the same way? E.g. would you use checkboxes or any other HTML widget?

- No, because the continent column is the only column with multiple categorical values. If you filtered on another column, for example "Name", then there would be only one value. If you filtered other columns, you'd likely want to do in some kind of range rather than a single value (i.e. countries that start with "a"). However, even checkboxes do not make sense for this filtering as the continent attribute is unique, therefore there is never a case where a multiple boxes are checked. Instead, a radio button or dropdown design would make more sense here with "None" selected as default. 

Question 3.1: Could you aggregate the table using other columns? If you think yes, explain which ones and how you would group values. Which HTML widgets would be appropriate?

- Again, the continent column is the only one with multiple categorical values, so it would not make sense as no other aggregations could exist and there are no attributes that other items have in common. But if multiple years were exposed in a single table, then you could have an aggregation based on years.

Question 4.1 What does the new attribute years hold?

- Years contains the entire earlier data set but acts as another categorical variable to filter the data on. The slider is very similar in functionality to the checkbox for filtering but will persist.

Question 5.1 What are the pros and cons of using HTML vs. SVG? Give some examples in the context of creating visualizations.

- In this context, the HTML allows you to have a more holistic view of multiple attributes at once. For example, it is possible to see both GDP, Life Expectancy, and Population in a single table, which while possible in a visualization using SVG it is more difficult.

- With SVG, one is able to use visuals to enhance perception in areas that are not immediately apparent to individuals. One such example is relative size, as it may be difficult for someone to understand just how much higher GDP is in the United States than in Uruguay when all someone sees is numbers, but this is immediately obvious in a visualization.

Question 7.1 Give an example of a situation where visualization is appropriate, following the arguments discussed in lecture and in the textbook (the example cannot be the same as mentioned in either lecture or textbook).

- Visualization is meant to allow exploration, confirmation, and presentation of data. Because there are limitations to how humans can perceive data, particularly relatively. An example is a shot chart in basketball, where one can see the location of the shot, the frequency at which it occurs in a location, and how the shooting percentage relates to averages. In this way, you have allowed a large data set with specific locations and visualized it to help determine whether or not someone is an efficient shooter. 

Question 7.2 Which limitations of static charts can you solve using interactivity?

- Interactivity allows you to focus in on data much more, with additional description / detail / zoom that allows you to add elements for increased accuracy without forcing a lot of information onto the chart.

Question 7.3 What are the limitations of visualization?

- Visualization can aid in making decisions on undefined problems, but if the problem is well-defined and the decision is needed immediately, then visualization is an unnecessary step in gathering information. Additionally, there is an actual limit to the amount of dimensions one can perceive in order to aid in their cognition before making information more difficult to understand.

Question 7.4 Why are data semantics important for data?

- Data semantics are useful as descriptors to indicate dependency of certain variables so they may be understood, meant essentially as an abstraction that shows how they may be stored.

Question 7.5 Which relationships are defined for two attributes of (a) quantitative, (b) categorical, or (c) ordinal scale?

- For quantitative data, you can essentially conduct all operations (=, !=, >, <) and comparisons (addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, etc.). For categorical data, you are limited to basic equivalence (=, !=) with the addition of relative order (>, <) introduced for ordinal data. 

Question 7.6 Which visual variables are associative (i.e., allow grouping)?

- Associative visual variables include position, length / size, saturation, color and perhaps similar shapes though this results in a lot of ambiguity depending on "how similar" two items are.

Question 7.7 Which visual variables are quantitative (i.e., allow to judge a quantitative difference between two data points)?

- Quantitative visual variables include position, length / size, and maybe saturation though there are limitations when trying to perceive this.